Alexandria!
Just hearing that name, one would immediately
imagine a burning library.
It is actually a city in the country of Egypt.
But, about fifty years before Christ was born,
… the claim is it had a copy of every important
document from anywhere in the world!
Some people say Julius Caesar destroyed it,
some say the Arabs destroyed it, but the belief
is that it was lost to fire.
A lot of collected knowledge, a veritable
fount of knowledge, was forever lost.
The library of Alexandria.
Namaste!
Four hundred and thirtyeight is about Alexandria.
They were saying much had been lost to fire,
weren’t they?
While I was researching on this topic, I came
to know that, YES, there WAS a library.
And, YES, the library was burned down.
Accident or Vengeance or Whatever!
But, NO, there weren’t many books lost forever..
There weren’t a lot of people regularly
coming and disappointed because of the burning.
Like all libraries in the world, this one
too, had suffered because of lack of patronage,
and had already been slowly turning decrepit.
That is the truth.
The bitter truth.
Anyway, I am not here to talk about the Library
of Alexandria.
I am here to talk about Alexa.
Alexa was the name for the Intelligent Voice
Assistant.
Amazon, Jeff Bezos the CEO, he wanted to come
up with a device, a series of devices actually,
that we could have an interaction with, as
a customer, a knowledge-customer, with NO
interface!
Interface-less computing!
Just by way of talking!
“Alexa!”
And, this series of devices was born.
He decided to call it Alexa.
And why?
He wanted to say, “Here is All the Knowledge
you’ll want.”
And, where is ALL the Knowledge?
In the Library of Alexandria!
So, that’s the reason he named it Alexa.
And, what are we going to do now?
We are going to put an Alexa in front of us..
not really, otherwise it will start responding
to me everytime I mention the word “Alexa”!
But, I am going to ask Alexa, “Give me some
life lessons!
Can you look at your own behaviour, analyse
it?
What can I learn from you?
This impersonal but personalised voice assistant,
what can I learn from you?
As an employee in a company, as a member in
a team, as a manager of a group of people,
what can I learn from you?!”
Here we go!
The Number One thing that you can learn from
Alexa is — “Easy to get started!”
Whether you are designing a product, or if
you are interacting with a friend, or, if
you are in a team, managing a group of people,
make it easier than easy to get started!
All you have to do is to bring the Alexa device
home, connect to Wifi, and presto!
You don’t need to learn anything.
No Ctrl-C, Cmd-V, X, Esc Key, Enter, Long
Press, Swipe, Nothing!
You’ve been talking to people!
Use that to talk to me!
That sense of comfort, if, as a manager, you
can build among your teammates, … “Talk
to me like you talk to everybody else..
No need to learn any new protocol!”
— you have one great gate opened up already!
Do that!
The Second Lesson that we can learn from Alexa?
Always be listening!
Did you know?
Controversial topic!
If you have set up an Alexa device in your
home, be it an Echo or a Show or a Dot, if
you have set one up, did you know it is alwaaaaaays
listening?
But, did you also know it is not violating
your privacy?
It is not collecting all the private conversations
you have at home, sending it to Amazon, and
analysing it and understanding what kind of
family you are, no no no..!
It is always listening, because, at any time,
you might say, “Alexa!”
They call it the WakeWord.
It is listening all the time to check whether
you are waking it up with its magic WakeWord.
You can say it at ANY TIME.
Unblinkingly, sleeplessly, it is listening!
The moment you SAY that WakeWord, it is all
ears, listening to whatever you say AFTER
THAT.
Beautiful!
Not just that..
As the activities it carries on under the
hood can easily be misconstrued as violation
of privacy, Amazon now exposes the Voice History.
So, you can actually go online and say, “Hey,
show me all the conversations we have had!”
What can we learn from this, as a teammate?
As a manager?
Always be AVAILABLE.
That doesn’t mean “Eavesdrop!”
That means, be ready, be watchful, observant,
for that WakeWord.
It could be “Sir” or “Madam” or “Bro”
or “Hello” or “Akka” or whatever.
That WakeWord.
The moment they see a need for you, you should
magically just apparate there.
Can you do that?
Also, remember the “Show me my history”
query from the customer?
Similarly, do you have transparency about
what conversations you’ve had with your
colleagues?
Can they look it up in some manner?
That is a good lesson to learn from Alexa.
Here is the Third Lesson.
Learn Something!
In the world of Alexa, whatever you take out
of the box is..
Echo.. a product.
It is dumb.
It can’t tell more than a couple of basic
things, and look up on the internet.
But, the magic happens when you allow it to
learn skills!
You can play a game with it.
You can make it count-down from a number.
You can ask it to tell you more about a song
that’s being played right now!
These kind of skills.. and, if you are a developer,
you can add your own skills!
From Zoho, for example, for some of its products,
we have added some Alexa Skills.
So, this kind of learning, .. opens up possibilities.
It is not what is in the box, it is not frozen
and fixed, I can update it “over the air”.
The hardware is just the starting.
There is a lot of soft stuff that I can load
on to it, on-call-basis.
That is how we should live our lives too.
It is not “What you see is what you get”!
What you can’t see is what you may get!
Provided you approach it in the right manner.
With a growth mindset.
With an always-learning attitude.
If you can keep looking around for what you
can pick up, if you can demonstrate to your
team that you are not just a “Get the job
done” person, but you can actually roll
the sleeves up, get dirty, get DOING those
things.
That you can lend a hand too when the need
arises, is something that can change the whole
perspective about how people perceive you!
You also need to learn THIS from Alexa.
Sometimes, while interacting with Alexa, .. we
would have just asked a simple, “Who is
this..?”
To which Alexa, instead of just answering
with a curt “This is so and so”, will
embark on a whole wikipedia long-form storytelling
initiative about which movie they acted in,
what television show they are appearing on
next, and so on and on and boringly on!
During such times, a bit rudely, I would interject
with a “Alexa, Stop!”
At half the sentence, midway, it will stop!
It will not try to have the last word in.
Remember “Last Word Freak”?
When I say “Stop!”, it won’t say “Okay!”
(and get the last word in!), it will JUST
STOP.
What an important lesson!
How many among us still haven’t learned
it!
I have a friend, a Whatsapp friend..
When I say, “Do not type anything further,
I am not in the mood to continue this conversation,
I have said what I had to say, please STOP!”
and their response to that would be a “Thumbs
up” emoji!
(Last Word Freak!)
Learn when to STOP talking.
That’s the lesson I would learn from Alexa.
It can go on and on too.
The moment it senses that I don’t need its
talking now, it immediately stops!
The next lesson is, “Take It Easy!”
Freeya Vidu!
You WILL get all sorts of nonsense questions!
Look at the mischief overload in that face!
Mom and Dad have left him alone, with the
babysitter, and this boy is… having a ball
with Alexa!
He wants Alexa to demonstrate a “fart sound”.
He wants to know what noise this animal would
make!
He orders Alexa to “Self Destruct!”
Try that at home and see what happens!
Funny thing happens!
You will receive all sorts of junk like this!
If you are in a position of power, if you
are in a pedestal, you will get dung slung
at you.
Mud thrown at you.
Rotten eggs will come at you.
Alexa takes those too, welcomingly, uncomplainingly,
with a half-smiling demeanour, a mock tinge
of surprise, and defuses the situation.
It will never get angry, it will never speak
fast, it will not stop talking if you want
it to continue, … If only we can be like
that too!?
Yes, people may wonder if we are given to
emotional outbursts at all, but, sometimes,
in these choppy seas, it is good to be seen
as a lighthouse set on a rocky promontory.
Like the Vivekananda Rock.
In the middle of the sea.
Unchanging.
Unshakeable.
Anytime, you can bank on!
Reassuring!
How good will that be!
I came to know about such a mode only when
researching for this Quotidian.
There is a mode called Whisper Mode.
There are a few people in a room.
Some of them are asleep.
But, you want to talk to Alexa.
In that case, if you ask Alexa “Who acted
in this movie” or “Who sang this song”
or “What are my todos tomorrow”, Alexa
shouldn’t of course start rattling off in
its default voice!
The others may wake up!
Interestingly, there is something called a
Whisper mode.
If you turn Whisper mode on, … truly beautiful!
If you … whisper… the command, it will
… whisper… the answer!
How smart!
How..
How relevant.
How accommodative.
Oh, you are asking me softly?
You don’t want others to know?
To be disturbed?
Try bringing this over to the corporate world?
A person comes to you, confides in you, … “Hey,
I came to know from somebody that..”
I make that mistake too.
In my team, sometimes, somebody confides,
and I think just removing the name, removing
some identifying information is good enough,
and I try to make a message to the whole team.
You have to be very careful!
Breach of Trust may result!
So, learn to activate Whisper Mode too!
Also, one of the most important powers of
Alexa is its ability to network with other
services.
I can find out about the delivery status of
my pizza THROUGH Alexa.
Is the next delivery from Amazon going to
be delayed?
I can come to know about it THROUGH Alexa.
Similarly, that is probably the most important
role a manager should play.
Not Work On Something.
Not Get Work Done.
But, Set The Ball Rolling, and step away,
and let that performer perform the magic!
But, in the act of performing that magic,
if there are any obstacles in the way, .. we
have touched upon Vigna Vinayak earlier too
.. removing the obstacles is the key role!
Be that one point clearinghouse.
Is the Covid lockdown coming up again?
You take care of it.
Is there going to be no lunch at the office
cafeteria on Sunday afternoon?
What will your team do then for food?
You will have to arrange for some food?
You take care of it.
Some colleague wants an external monitor to
probably maximise her work and get it done,
she needs an approval, You lubricate it for
her!
This is probably a lesson you can learn from
Alexa.
Be that one point clearinghouse for all the
headache-y mess that surrounds my work so
that I can focus in my Flow State.
This is our dog.
Karuppan is the name.
Don’t be misled by the skin color.
It is a white dog named Karuppan.
And, we buy Purina.
A dog-food from Amazon.
We had bought it twice, and the third time,
Alexa woke up, and said, “Based on your
purchase history, it should be time now to
buy dog food!”.
We were taken aback a little, but then we
told ourselves..
Okay, this is Amazon after all, and Alexa
is from Amazon too, it is good that it is
reminding me!
Similarly, think about forecasting, predicting,
based on previous interaction history.
What can you predict about your teammates,
about your employees, about your colleagues,
about your product itself!
That doesn’t mean all your predictions are
going to come true!
Nor should you go about merrily predicting
everything you can lay your hands on!
But, have some alternate plans.
You have a Plan A. Can we have a Plan B based
on this emergency that might happen?
That should be an important thing that you
should keep running in the background of your
brain.
Just like Alexa.
And, finally, you need to, once in a while,
take Feedback!
Alexa does it regularly.
“Was I helpful?”
“Am I talking too much?”
“That information I replied you with, to
your question, did I respond right?
Do you want to rate me?”
“That thing you bought yesterday, many others
may want to buy it too.
What should i tell them?
Five Star?
One Star?”
It will ask us!
Similarly, our managers give us a rating,
of course.
But, that 360 rating?
Where the colleagues, and those under you
tell you how you are doing, … Nothing compares
to the shining candid truthfulness of such
an amazing moment of truth!
That brings us to the closing thought.
A frightening thought.
This picture?
It is not a photograph.
Of course, photography wasn’t even around
at that time.
Nor is it a painting.
It is from Midjourney.
You must have heard of it.
It is an AI platform that can create generative
art.
“The Library of Alexandria”, “Burning”,
“The Last Librarian”, “Oil Painting”
brought this up.
Someday we should talk about this generative
thing that’s happening in AI.
The Year of AI, they call 2023!
We will surely touch upon this!
Thank you!
See you soon!